---
 layout: post
 titile: Git
 Date: 2024-06-12
---
   
   - Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS) designed to handle projects of all sizes with speed,
     and efficiency. It allows multiple people to work on a project simultaneously without interfering with each other's work, provides tools for collaboration, and maintains a history of changes for easy reference and rollback.

      - **Configuration**
         - git config --global user.name "Your Name": Set your name for commits.
         - git config --global user.email "you@example.com": Set your email for commits.
         - git config --list: To check user name and email.
     
      - **Repository Setup**
         - git init: Initialize a new Git repository.
         - git clone <url>: Clone an existing repository.
     
      
      - **Basic Commands**
         - git status: Show the working directory status.
         - git add <file>: Add file(s) to the staging area.
         - git commit -m "message": Commit changes with a message.
         - git log: Show commit history.
         - git diff: Show changes between commits, commit and working tree, etc.
     
      
      - **Branching and Merging**
         - git branch: List, create, or delete branches.
         - git checkout <branch>: Switch to a branch.
         - git merge <branch>: Merge a branch into the current branch.
         - git rebase <branch>: Reapply commits on top of another base tip.
     
      
      - **Add remote origin address**
         - git remote add origin <URL>
         - git fetch: Fetch changes from the remote but do not integrate.
         - git pull: Fetch and integrate changes from the remote.
         - git push origin: Push changes to the remote repository.
         - git remote -v

      
      - **Undoing Changes**
         - git reset <commit>: Reset current HEAD to the specified state.
         - git revert <commit>: Create a new commit that undoes the changes from a previous commit.
         - git stash: Stash changes in a dirty working directory.
         - git stash apply: Apply stashed changes.
     
      
       - **Advanced Commands**
         - git tag: Create, list, delete, or verify a tag object signed with GPG.
      
      
       - **Delete a branch**
          - git branch -d <branch-name>
          - git branch -D <branch-name>